>>> AND WE'RE BACK WITH SENIOR
ADVISER TO ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU MARK
REGOFF.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" IS
REPORTING THAT THREE SENIOR
ISRAELI OFFICIALS SAY THAT THE
PLAN IS TO WIPE OUT HAMAS'S TOP
LEADERSHIP IN GAZA.
AND TO INVADE GAZA CITY.
WE HAVEN'T HEARD WHAT THE PLAN
IS.
WE'VE SEEN A LOT OF AIR STRIKES
ON GAZA.
YOU COULD CONFIRM THAT THAT IS
THE PLAN, TO WIPE OUT HAMAS AS
TOP LEADERSHIP AND TO INVADE
GAZA CITY WITH A GROUND FORCE?
>> JAKE, YOU OF COURSE KNOW THAT
I'M NOT GOING TO GO INTO
OPERATIONAL DETAILS OF MILITARY
ACTIVITIES THAT ARE STILL AHEAD
OF US.
I CAN ONLY SHARE THE GOAL WITH
YOU OF THE OPERATION.
WHICH IS BEEN STATED AND I'LL
STATE IT AGAIN, WE WILL
DISMANTLE HAMAS'S MILITARY
MACHINE AND TAKE APART ITS
POLITICAL GOVERNMENTS IN GAZA.
WE WILL DESTROY BOTH THE
MILITARY WING OF HAMAS, ITS
MILITARY MACHINE, AND THE
TERRORIST CAPABILITIES AND
GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES, ITS
GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE IN GAZA.
>> HOW MANY PEOPLE IS THAT, DO
YOU THINK?
>> I CAN'T GO INTO NUMBERS.
BUT IT MEANS THAT WHEN THIS IS
OVER, HAMAS WILL BE INCAPABLE OF
LAUNCHING THE SORT OF HORRENDOUS
ATTACK THAT THEY DID ON OCTOBER
7th.
THEY WILL BE PHYSICALLY
INCAPABLE OF LAUNCHING SUCH AN
OPERATION.
>> SO, CERTAINLY TAKING OUT
HAMAS'S LEADERSHIP, I UNDERSTAND
THE POINT OF THAT.
BUT THE PALESTINIAN HEALTH
MINISTRY IN GAZA SAID 2800
PALESTINIAN HAVE BEEN KILLED AN
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A QUARTER AND
A THIRD OF THEM ARE CHILDREN.
THAT IS NOT HAMAS'S LEADERSHIP.
>> CAN I PLEASE OFFER A WARD OF
CAUTION.
NOW I KNOW THAT THERE IS REAL
SUFFERING IN GAZA.
THERE IS A WAR GOING ON AND
INNOCENT PEOPLE ARE GETTING
CAUGHT UP IN A VERY DIFFICULT
SITUATION.
I DON'T MINIMIZE THAT.
BUT YOU HAVE TO TAKE WITH A
GRAIN OF SALT ANY INFORMATION
THAT COMES OUT OF THE HAMAS
CONTROLLED MINISTRY OF HEALTH IN
GAZA.
THAT HAS TO BE SAID.
IT IS NOT A DEMOCRACY, THERE IS
NOT AN INDEPENDENT HEALTH
BUREAUCRACY TRYING TO DO ITS
BEST.
EVERY DOCTOR THAT YOU SPEAK TO
AND EVERY HOSPITAL DIRECTOR THAT
YOU SPEAK TO WORKS UNDER THE GUN
OF HAMAS.
THEY ARE NOT INDEPENDENT.
IF THEY SPEAK OUT OF TURN, THEY
WILL PAY A PRICE.
IT IS LIKE SPEAKING TO A DOCTOR
IN NORTH KOREA OR A DOCTOR IN
THE FORMER SOVIET UNION.
THEY DON'T HAVE INDEPENDENT
OPINIONS.
THEY HAVE TO FOLLOW THE PARTY
LINE AND IF NOT, THEY FACE
VIOLENT CONSEQUENCES.
SO THOSE NUMBERS, THEY MIGHT BE
TRUE, THEY MIGHT NOT BE TRUE.
HAMAS, OF COURSE, HAS AN
INTEREST IN EXAGGERATING
CIVILIAN CASUALTIES.
>> SO LET'S ASSUME --
>> AND HAMAS DIDN'T SAY HOW MANY
WERE COMBATANTS OF COURSE.
>> RIGHT.
SO LET'S ASSUME THAT YOU TAKE
OUT THE HAMAS LEADERSHIP AND
THEIR ABILITY TO COMMIT
ATROCITIES.
AMBASSADOR HERZOG TOLD ME
YESTERDAY THAT ISRAEL DOES NOT
WANT TO REOCCUPY GAZA SO WHAT
HAPPENS AFTER HAMAS IS
DESTROYED?
WHO WOULD BE IN CHARGE OF GAZA?
>> SO, FIRST OF ALL, MAYBE
ALMOST ANYTHING WOULD BE BETTER
THAN HAMAS.
I MEAN, IF THERE WERE ILLUSIONS
THAT HAMAS HAD SOMEHOW MODERATED
ITS POSITION THAT THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENT OF
BEING RULING OVER 2.3 MILLION
PEOPLE, FORCES HAMAS TO BE A
MORE RATIONAL BEHAVIOR, THAT WAS
PROVEN WRONG.
THE VIOLENCE, THE BRUTAL
HORRIFIC VIOLENCE THAT WE SAW
ON
OCTOBER 7th SHOWED THAT TO BE
WRONG.
THIS IS A HARD CORE EXTREMIST
MURDERIST TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION.
AND SO YOU HAVE TO SAY, IF IT IS
LIKE ISIS, HOW COULD IT GET MUCH
WORSE.
SO YOU HAVE TO HIT IT HARD, AND
WE HAVE TO -- WE HAVE TO DESTROY
ITS ABILITY TO ATTACK US.
AND I'VE BEEN IN DISCUSSIONS
WHERE DIFFERENT CONTINGENCIES
HAVE BEEN DISCUSSED, WHAT
HAPPENS AFTER, AT THIS TAJ I'M
NOT AT LIBERTY TO DISCUSS THOSE
DISCUSSIONS, BUT ISRAEL IS
THINKING THREE STEPS AHEAD.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING NOW IS
NOW IS WE FOCUS ON THE
DISMANTLING OF THE POLITICAL
STRUCTURE.
>> THERE IS A NEW REPORT THAT
ALLEGES SENIOR OFFICIALS IN
NETANYAHU'S OFFICE ARE BARRED
FROM WORKING WITH AN ISRAELI
DEFENSE MINISTRY TASK FORCE
WHICH IS FOCUSED ON PREPARING
INFRASTRUCTURE NEAR GAZA.
BECAUSE THE DEFENSE TASK FORCE
IS LED BY A STAUNCH OPPONENT OF
THE NETANYAHU JUDICIAL OVERHAUL.
IS THAT TRUE?
>> I HAVE NOT READ THAT REPORT
AND I'M NOT FAMILIAR WITH ANY OF
THAT.
I APOLOGIZE.
>> YOU'VE SAID THAT ISRAEL IS
UNITED RIGHT NOW.
VERY UNITED.
SO FAR NETANYAHU HAS NOT BEEN
ABLE TO GET OPPOSITION LEADER LA
PEAD TO JOIN THE UNITY
GOVERNMENT.
WHAT IS GOING ON THERE?
SHOULDN'T ISRAEL BE AS UNITED AS
POSSIBLE?
>> WELL WE'VE ALREADY UNITED BY
BRINGING IN ONE MAJOR OPPOSITION
PARTY.
AND AS YOU KNOW, THEY JOINED A
FEW DAYS AGO AND WE'VE NOW GOT A
NATIONAL EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT.
WHERE MR. GANTZ, WHO WAS A
SEVERE CRITIC OF PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU, STEPPED IN AND
STEPPED IN THIS TIME OF CRISIS
WE HAVE TO UNITE TO FIGHT THE
COMMON ENEMY AND IF YOU LOOK AT
POLLING IN ISRAEL, THERE IS WIDE
SUPPORT FOR THAT SORT OF MOVE.
IT MUST BE REMEMBERED, WHEN THEY
CROSSED THE BORDER ON OCTOBER
7th TO MURDER US, THEY WENT TO
LEFT WING KIBBUTZ, WHERE PEOPLE
IN THEIR LIVES NEVER VOTED FOR
NETANYAHU AND THEY WENT TO RIGHT
WING VILLAGES WHERE EVERYBODY
LIKES NETANYAHU.
THEY DIDN'T CARE IF ISRAELIS
WERE LEFT WING OR RIGHT WING OR
RELIGIOUS OR SECULAR.
THEY KILL US BECAUSE WE'RE
ISRAELIS AND BECAUSE WE ARE
JEWS.
THAT IS -- THE MURDERS AND
VIOLENCE THAT WE SAW ON OCTOBER
7th, THAT WAS THE LARGEST SINGLE
ACT OF ANTI-SEMITIC VIOLENCE
SINCE 1945.
SINCE THE TERRIBLE YEARS OF THE
HAUTE.
WE HAVE NOT SEEN ANYTHING LIKE
THAT FOR MONTHAN HALF A CENTURY.
SO I THINK MORE MANY ISRAELIS,
WE ARGUE ABOUT POLITICS AND
LOUDLY AND PASSIONATELY.
BUT I THINK THESE ATTACKS BY
HAMAS TO A CERTAIN EXTENT WERE A
SLAP ON THE FACE.
WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THAT WE
HAVE A COMMON DESTINY, AND A
COMMON -- A COMMON SITUATION
THAT WE'RE ALTOGETHER IN FACING
THESE TERRIBLE AND HORRIFIC
CHALLENGES.